# Guidelines to Authors of Internet-Drafts

## Table of Contents

-   [Introducing Internet-Drafts](#introducing-internet-drafts)
-   [The Internet-Draft Repository](#the-internet-draft-repository)
-   [Internet-Draft Names](#internet-draft-names)
-   [The Submission Process](#the-submission-process)
    -   [Manual Submissions](#manual-submissions)
-   [Content](#content)
    -   [Required Content](#required-content)
    -   [Content Considerations](#content-considerations)
-   [Format](#format)
-   [Acknowledgement](#acknowledgement)

## Introducing Internet-Drafts

Internet-Drafts (I-Ds) are the basic work items of the IETF. They are
the primary inputs into what may eventually be published as a Request
for Comment (RFC).

Internet-Drafts are used by all of the [RFC
Streams](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8729). Unless otherwise
indicated, the guidance in this document applies to all streams.

Internet-Drafts are prepared by people acting in possibly several roles,
such as an author or an editor. This document uses the term “author”,
but the guidance here applies to people acting in any role.

This document collects and summarizes requirements and guidance from
many sources. The following resources should be consulted for definitive
details:

-   The IETF Standards Process is described in [RFC
    2026](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2026).
-   The IETF rules concerning copyright are described in [BCP
    78](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp78).
-   The IETF rules on IPR are described in [BCP
    79](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp79).
-   The IETF [Trust Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
    Documents](https://trustee.ietf.org/documents/trust-legal-provisions/),
    called “the TLP” for short, provides many details about copyright
    policy and practice.

Much of the guidance in this document is in the form of something that
can be inspected, or checked, to see whether changes should be made
before submitting an I-D. These items are marked with checkboxes (\[
\]). However, authors are expected to be familiar with and to apply the
full guidance in this document.

There are tools to help with the creation of Internet-Drafts. Rather
than attempting to construct a plaintext Internet-Draft manually, it is
highly recommended using a structured language for authoring, and a
toolchain like [xml2rfc](https://pypi.org/project/xml2rfc/) or
[kramdown-rfc2629](https://github.com/cabo/kramdown-rfc2629) to build a
submission. If you are maintaining your draft on GitHub, you will
probably find [Martin Thomson’s
tools](https://github.com/martinthomson/i-d-template) useful.

An [online converter](https://xml2rfc.tools.ietf.org/experimental.html)
for documents in the [xml2rfc](https://pypi.org/project/xml2rfc/) or
[kramdown-rfc2629](https://github.com/cabo/kramdown-rfc2629) input
formats is available. Authors working with the xml2rfc XML source format
should be familiar with [the XML
grammar](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7991) [that the xml2rfc tool
currently accepts](https://xml2rfc.tools.ietf.org/xml2rfc-doc.html), and
the [RFC Editor’s FAQ on using the v3 XML
format](https://www.rfc-editor.org/materials/FAQ-xml2rfcv3.html).

As Internet-Drafts may be eventually published as RFCs, it is
recommended to consult the [RFC Editor’s publication
process](https://www.rfc-editor.org/pubprocess/).

## The Internet-Draft Repository

Active versions of Internet-Drafts are also placed in the
[Internet-Draft Repository](https://www.ietf.org/id). Versions of
Internet-Drafts are removed from the Repository when any of the
following occur:

-   The I-D is updated with a new version.
-   The I-D is replaced by another Internet-Draft.
-   The I-D is published as an RFC.
-   The I-D expires.

An I-D expires 185 days after it was placed in the Repository, unless it
is in a state that prevents it from expiring. Examples of such states
include being processed by the IESG for publication in the IETF stream,
or being under review by the Independent Series Editor (ISE) for
publication in the [Independent Submission
Stream](https://www.rfc-editor.org/about/independent/).

All versions of Internet-Drafts are kept in the [Internet-Draft
Archive](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id). Internet-Drafts are not
removed from the Archive when they are removed from the Repository.
Removing an I-D from the Archive occurs only in exceptional
circumstances, described in this [IESG
Statement](https://www.ietf.org/about/groups/iesg/statements/internet-draft-removal/).

Even though Internet-Drafts are kept in the Archive, they are not an
archival series and should not be cited or quoted as anything other than
“work in progress”.

## Internet-Draft Names

The characters that may appear in an I-D name are restricted:

-   [ ] Ensure that the I-D name consists only of
    -   the lowercase letters `a-z`,
    -   the digits `0-9`,
    -   or hyphens (`-`).

Internet-Draft names have one of the following two formats:

    draft-{SOURCE}-{WGNAME}-{SHORT-DOC-TITLE}-{VV}

    draft-{AUTHOR-NAME}-{SHORT-DOC-TITLE}-{VV}

All components are required, and are separate by a hyphen. Text in
curly-braces, such as `{WGNAME}` represents an identifier.

The first component, `draft-`, identifies the I-D as a draft (as opposed
to other document types, such as a charter or a review).

-   [ ] Verify that the I-D name begins with `draft-`.

The second component, `{SOURCE}`, identifies the source of an I-D. If an
I-D has been adopted into any stream other than the Independent
Submission Stream, this component will identify the stream, as listed
below.

If the I-D has not been adopted into any stream or if it is being
considered for publication in the Independent Submission Stream, the
second format above should be used. In this, the second component,
`{AUTHOR-NAME}`, should consist of a string related to the names(s) of
the author(s). There are no mechanical rules for this string beyond
consisting only of the allowed characters. However, objectionable or
misleading strings are subject to change or removal. The string is
typically the last name of the lead author or editor.

The second component must not be easily confused with a group acronym.
The following strings for the second component are reserved for their
respective organizations (some of which are historic):

-   `iana`
-   `iaoc`
-   `iesg`
-   `ietf-trust`
-   `rfc-editor`

The second component should not contain a hyphen. Legacy uses and edge
cases such as hyphenated last names are allowed. Having a hyphen in the
second component makes it hard to extract programmatically. This forces
many tools to use heuristics when tying to locate the second component.

-   [ ] Ensure the second component reasonably identifies the source of
    the I-D and that it is not a group acronym or a reserved string, is
    not objectionable, and does not otherwise introduce confusion.

-   [ ] If the I-D has been adopted by a stream, ensure the second
    component is:

    -   `ietf` for the IETF stream
    -   `irtf` for the IRTF stream
    -   `iab` for the IAB stream

Note that any I-D submitted with one of these stream identifiers in the
second component that has not been adopted by the indicated stream will
either be rejected or replaced.

If the I-D is targeted at or has been adopted by a group, the group’s
acronym should be added to the name just after the second component,
separated by a hyphen. A list of active IETF working groups can be found
[here](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/).

-   [ ] Ensure an adopted or group-targeted I-D identifies the group
    just after the second component by including the group’s acronym.

Note again that if the I-D has not been adopted into a stream, and it
identifies a stream in the second component, it will be rejected or
replaced. In particular for IETF stream documents, the first version of
an I-D with a name that begins with `draft-ietf-wgname-` for any working
group name must be approved by the working group’s chairs before it will
be posted.

The remainder of the name describes the purpose of the I-D, usually in
just a few words. Each word is separated by a hyphen.

-   [ ] Ensure the name reasonably reflects the purpose of the I-D.

Internet-Drafts are versioned with two digits, separated from the name
with a hyphen. The initial version of an I-D must be `00`, and
subsequent updates must increment the version number by one.

If the I-D is submitted as XML (which is highly recommended), the name
and version of the document will be declared in the “value” attribute of
a [“seriesInfo”
element](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7991.html#section-2.47). The
filename submitted must have a `.xml` extension.

If the I-D is submitted as plain text (which is not recommended), the
name and version will appear on the document’s first page, and the
filename submitted must must have a `.txt` extension.

A popular convention is that an individual submission seeking adoption
by a working group will include the working group’s acronym just after
the second component. For example, a person or group identified as
“authors” seeking to get a document about “specific-subject” adopted by
the “wgname” working group might choose the name
`draft-authors-wgname-specific-subject`, and submit the file
`draft-authors-wgname-specific-subject-00.xml`. If the document is later
adopted by the working group, the authors will usually create a new I-D
named `draft-ietf-wgname-specific-subject` and submit it as
`draft-ietf-wgname-specific-subject-00.xml`. Note that the version
number of this new I-D will always be `00`, no matter how many versions
of the individual draft were posted before adoption.

## The Submission Process

Internet-Draft submissions are made using the [IETF Datatracker’s
submission tool](https://datatracker.ietf.org/submit). An I-D submission
should be an [xml2rfc version 3](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7991)
XML source file, but a [version 2
source](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7749) will be accepted. If an XML
file is submitted, this is taken as the authoritative version of the
document.

If XML source is submitted, the Datatracker will generate a plain text
version of the I-D and place it in the Archive. If v3 source is
submitted, the Datatracker will also generate an HTML version and place
it in the Archive.

If an XML submission is not possible, the draft can be submitted as
plaintext and will be taken as the authoritive version. If XML is
submittted, a plaintext version can also be submitted as an “alternate
form” of the draft.

In addition, it is currently possible to submit PDF and/or PostScript
versions of the document. They are kept with the authoritative document
source in the repository and archive. It is expected that supoprt for
PDF and PostScript will be removed at some point, and further that only
XML or plaintext (not both) will be allowed.

**In short: submit XML if at all possible, with v3 preferred over v2.**

When a submission is made through the submission tool, the authors will
receive email with a request to verify the submission. The submission
will not be accepted and posted until the action requested in that email
is performed. If the submitter is logged into the Datatracker and listed
as an author this step is bypassed.

If the I-D being submitted replaces another I-D (such as in the earlier
example discussing creating a new I-D when a working group adopts a
document), the submitter will be able to identify the replacement using
the submission tool. A group chair or the IETF Secretariat will verify
the replacement before the relationship is added to the Datatracker.

The submission tool will double-check many, but not all, of the guidance
points called out in this document. Authors are expected to have
manually applied the guidance before submission.

While many of the requirements highlighted by this document are for
RFCs, Internet-Drafts are expected to adhere to them to the extent
possible. In particular, IETF stream I-Ds submitted to the IESG must
follow all of the guidance. Working groups are encouraged to require the
guidance be followed for I-Ds entering Working Group Last Call. I-Ds
will progress through the review and publication process more
efficiently the earlier the guidance is followed in the I-D.

### Manual Submissions

If authors are unable to submit an I-D through the Datatracker, they may
make a manual-post request by sending the I-D via email to
support@ietf.org. The message may contain the I-D as an attachment, or a
URL that will resolve to the I-D. The I-D must be a standalone document
in either XML or plaintext format. Multiple files presented in
containers such as zip or tar will not be accepted. All other formats
will be discarded without opening.

Be aware of the deadlines for submitting I-Ds before each IETF Meeting.
The [important dates
page](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/important-dates) will show
the deadline for submitting I-Ds. Some meetings may have an earlier
deadline for initial versions of I-Ds than for updates to existing I-Ds.
After the deadlines, submissions will not be accepted until the meeting
begins. The leadership responsible for each stream can override this
submission blackout period when appropriate. Care should be taken when
submitting an I-D near the deadline, especially if a manual post is
requested. The steps to confirm and post the submission take time.

## Content

Internet-Drafts and RFCs have certain required content. I-Ds should take
the accrued knowledge on frequent and particularly important topics into
consideration as early in their life cycle as possible.

### Required Content

If an Internet-Draft is prepared in XML, the tooling will ensure that
required content is present, automatically provide selected boilerplate
text, and handle the majority of formatting concerns. An Internet-Draft
prepared as plain text requires more effort to ensure that the required
content is present and in the right form.

As Internet-Drafts are inputs into what might eventually be published as
RFCs, their content requirements are based on what is required in an
RFC. Specifically, many of the documents defining these requirements are
written in terms of RFCs and do not mention Internet-Drafts, but these
requirements, with very few exceptions, apply to Internet-Drafts. See
[RFC 7841](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7841) for specific details.

-   [ ] Ensure that the I-D correctly provides the following:
    -   The date the document was generated.
    -   A list of authors/editors and their affiliations.
    -   The group that originated the I-D (if any).
    -   The intended status of the document.
    -   The set of RFCs this I-D intends to update or replace, if any.

These required elements are represented explicitly in XML source. The
tools will automatically format the information when building a
presentation format. The format required for these items in plaintext
submissions is discussed in the [Format section](#format) below.

-   [ ] Ensure that the I-D contains each of the following sections:
    -   IPR-Related Notices
    -   Abstract
    -   Introduction
    -   Security Considerations
    -   IANA Considerations
    -   References
    -   Authors’ Addresses
-   [ ] If the document uses [BCP
    14](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp14) normative language,
    ensure the unchanged boilerplate text from [BCP
    14](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp14) is present in the I-D,
    and that [BCP 14](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp14) is
    normatively referenced.

Note that [BCP 14](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp14) is made up of
both [RFC 2119](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119) and [RFC
8174](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174), and they must be cited as
described in the latter document. Please use the boilerplate text
*exactly* as specified in [RFC
8174](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174).

-   [ ] If the I-D intends to obsolete or update existing RFCs, ensure
    there is a “Summary of Changes” section.

#### IPR-Related Notices

[BCP 78](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp78) and [BCP
79](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp79) specify the IETF’s
Intellectual Property policies. Among them is a requirement to include
certain standardized text in each Internet-Draft. This text is managed
by the IAB, see the [current acceptable boilerplate
texts](https://www.iab.org/documents/headers-boilerplate/) and the
[fully expanded forms of the boilerplate
texts](https://www.rfc-editor.org/materials/status-memos.txt).

Authors preparing XML submissions indicate which boilerplate text to use
by providing one of a set of enumerated values to the `ipr` attribute of
the `rfc` element in the XML source. The tooling generates the actual
required text. See Appendix A.1 in [RFC
7991](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7991) for the available `ipr`
attribute values. The majority of IETF stream I-Ds indicate
`trust200902` or `pre5378Trust200902`, as needed.

Authors preparing plaintext submissions must carefully reproduce the
text most appropriate for their Internet-Draft.

Authors of IETF stream documents must not select boilerplate that
prohibits publication as an RFC.

A standard Copyright Notice and Disclaimer must be included. This will
be generated automatically for authors preparing XML submissions.
Authors of plaintext submissions should refer to the [TLP Section
6](https://trustee.ietf.org/documents/trust-legal-provisions/) for the
exact text to reproduce.

-   [ ] Verify that one of the approved IPR boilerplate selections are
    indicated in XML submissions or exactly reproduced in plaintext
    submissions.

-   [ ] Verify that the most appropriate IPR boilerplate for the I-D is
    indicated.

Any Internet-Draft submitted that does not select one of the required
IPR boilerplate statements will be rejected. The IETF Secretariat cannot
add a selection for the author.

##### Limiting Modifications and Derivative Works

If the submitter of a non-IETF stream I-D desires to eliminate the
IETF’s right to make modifications and derivative works of the I-D, one
of two notices must be included after the IPR statement.

The first choice is used if the contributor intends for the I-D to be
published as an RFC:

> This document may not be modified, and derivative works of it may not
> be created, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to
> translate it into languages other than English.

This will be automatically generated by the tools from XML source if the
`ipr` attribute value `noModificationTrust200902` is selected.

The second choice is used when the contributor does not intend for the
I-D to be published as an RFC:

> This document may not be modified, and derivative works of it may not
> be created, and it may not be published except as an Internet-Draft.

This will be automatically generated by the tools from XML source if the
`ipr` attribute value `noDerivativesTrust200902` is selected.

These notices may not be used with any IETF Standards Track document or
with most working group documents, except as discussed in [BCP
78](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp78), since the IETF must retain
change control over its documents and the ability to augment, clarify,
and enhance the original contribution in accordance with the IETF
Standards Process.

The first choice may be appropriate when republishing standards produced
by a standards body other than the IETF, industry consortia, or
companies. These are typically published as Informational RFCs and do
not require that change control be ceded to the IETF. Documents of this
type convey information for the Internet community.

The second choice may be used on I-Ds that are intended to provide
background information to educate and to facilitate discussions within
IETF working groups but are not intended to be published as RFCs.

If you think that you, your company, or anyone else owns a patent or
other Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) on the work described in the
I-D, you should carefully read [BCP
79](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp79). The first notice required in
an I-D, described earlier in this section, obligates you to send an IPR
disclosure statement under certain circumstances. In particular, when
preparing a document intended to be included in the IETF Stream, before
submitting the I-D, discussing it with the working group chairs or Area
Directors is advised.

#### Abstract

Every Internet-Draft must have an abstract. The abstract should provide
a concise and comprehensive overview of the purpose and contents of the
entire document. Its purpose is to give a technically knowledgeable
reader a general overview of the function of the document, to decide
whether reading it will be useful. In addition to its function in the
document, the abstract is used as a summary in publication announcements
and in the [online index of
I-Ds](https://www.ietf.org/id/1id-abstracts.txt).

Composing a useful abstract is a nontrivial writing task. Often, a
satisfactory abstract can be constructed in part from material from the
introduction section, but a good abstract will be shorter, less
detailed, and broader in scope than the introduction. Simply copying and
pasting the first few paragraphs of the introduction is tempting, but it
generally results in an abstract that is both incomplete and redundant.
An abstract will typically be five to ten lines. An abstract of more
than 20 lines or fewer than three lines is generally not acceptable.

-   [ ] Ensure the Internet-Draft contains an appropriate abstract.

An abstract should be complete in itself, so it should not contain
citations unless they are completely defined within the abstract.
Abbreviations appearing in the abstract should generally be expanded in
parentheses. There is a set of reasonable exceptions to this rule; for
example, readers don’t need to be reminded of what “IP” or “TCP” or
“HTTP” means. The RFC Editor maintains a [list of approved
abbreviations](https://www.rfc-editor.org/materials/abbrev.expansion.txt)
that do not need to be expanded. In the end, this is a judgment call,
but please err on the side of explicitness.

-   [ ] Verify that the abstract stands alone.
-   [ ] Ensure abbreviations in the abstract are expanded as
    appropriate.
-   [ ] If the I-D intends to obsolete or update a previous RFC, ensure
    the abstract says so explicitly.

The RFC Editor’s [Style Guide](https://www.rfc-editor.org/styleguide/)
includes further guidance about writing an abstract.

#### Introduction

-   [ ] If the I-D intends to obsolete or update a previous RFC, ensure
    the Introduction briefly explains what is being updated and why.

#### Security Considerations

[RFC 3552](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3552) describes current best
practices about writing a Security Considerations section. This section
is mandatory in all documents.

The text of this section must have a meaningful exploration of security
issues raised by the proposal, which should include both risks and a
description of solutions or workarounds. It is rare that technical work
can legitimately make a claim like “This protocol introduces no security
considerations,” so it needs to be fairly obvious for that to be
believable, or the document will be returned for further development.
Procedural documents, however, more commonly can claim no added security
risk.

Some other references that may be useful when crafting this section are:

-   [Internet Security Glossary, Version
    2](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4949)

-   [Guidelines for Specifying the Use of IPsec Version
    2](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5406)

-   [Guidelines for Authors and Reviewers of MIB
    Documents](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4181)

-   [Security Guidelines for IETF MIB
    Modules](https://trac.ietf.org/trac/ops/wiki/mib-security)

-   [YANG Security
    Considerations](https://trac.ietf.org/trac/ops/wiki/yang-security-guidelines)

-   [ ] Verify that a meaningful Security Consideration section is
    present.

#### IANA Considerations

IANA is the [Internet Assigned Numbers Authority](https://www.iana.org/)
and provides global coordination of the DNS root, IP addressing, and
many other Internet protocol resources for the IETF. The “IANA
Considerations” section must be present in a document and enumerate any
actions IANA must take upon publication of the document as an RFC.

-   [ ] Verify this section contains clear instructions if IANA is
    expected to create a new registry or modify rules for an existing
    registry.

-   [ ] Verify this section contains clear instructions if the document
    requires IANA to assign or update values in an IANA registry before
    RFC publication.

-   [ ] Check the existing IANA registry for registration policy rules
    and any requirements for specific requests for registration of
    protocol parameters. Individual RFCs have specific criteria and
    instructions that should be followed.

-   [ ] If the registration policy is “Expert Review” or “Specification
    Required” and/or requires mailing list review, as soon as the
    requested parameter information is properly formed, consider
    initiating reviews with IANA or sending to the appropriate mailing
    list (where applicable; see the RFC for that the registry for
    instructions). If there are any questions about what type of
    approval is needed from the Designated Expert (for example, if the
    registration should be made immediately or only pre-reviewed before
    publication), please contact IANA.

-   [ ] If registrations are needed early for registries with
    “Specification Required”, “RFC Required”, “IETF Review”, or
    “Standards Action” policies, consider using the early allocation
    process defined in [RFC 7120](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7120).

-   [ ] Verify this section explicitly and clearly identifies any
    references to this document that should be added for any
    registrations and any that should replace existing references.

-   [ ] If the document has considerable instructions for IANA actions,
    request an early review of the document by IANA.

-   [ ] If there is no action for IANA, verify that this section
    explicitly says “This document has no IANA actions.” It is often
    helpful for the IANA Considerations section to remain in place upon
    publication as an RFC even if there are no actions.

For more specific guidelines regarding structure and content for writing
IANA Considerations sections, please see [RFC
8126](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126) and the IANA [Protocol
Registration
Procedures](https://www.iana.org/help/protocol-registration).

#### Summary of Changes

As noted in the abstract and introduction sections above, the abstract
and introduction must call out any RFCs an I-D intends to obsolete or
update. There should also be a section providing greater detail about
the motivation and changes.

-   [ ] Ensure the I-D clearly summarizes any changes made from the RFCs
    being updated or obsoleted.

-   [ ] Ensure any errata against RFCs that are being obsoleted or
    updated have been considered, and that the I-D clearly identifies
    those that have been addressed.

#### References

A references section must be present and split into normative and
informative sections. For guidance, see the RFC Editor’s [Style
Guide](https://www.rfc-editor.org/styleguide/) and the [IESG Statement
on Normative and Informative
References](https://www.ietf.org/about/groups/iesg/statements/normative-informative-references/).

Normative and informative references to non-IETF documents are
permitted. However, it is best to minimize such normative references,
because assessing their status when the IETF document advances on the
standards track is very difficult. It is important to use the exact
title, author name(s), organization and publication date. External
specifications referenced by Internet-Standard-level Technical
Specifications or Applicability Statements must be to open external
standards, per [RFC 2026](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2026).

-   [ ] Ensure all needed references are present and correctly
    identified as normative or informative.

-   [ ] Verify that references are stable and resolvable.

A bare URI is not generally considered a stable reference. For web-only
documents, adding a reference number, title , and/or an author will help
make the reference more stable. See the RFC Editor’s [Style
Guide](https://www.rfc-editor.org/styleguide/) for specific guidance
about URIs in Internet-Drafts. Judgment can be used here; the stability
of normative references is even more important than the stability of
informative references.

Also note that normative references to I-Ds will cause the referencing
document to wait in the RFC Editor queue for the referenced I-Ds to be
published as RFCs. They may in some cases become a [cluster of
documents](https://www.rfc-editor.org/about/clusters/) that will be
published as RFCs simultaneously.

#### Authors’ Addresses

-   [ ] Verify that the I-D contains a section giving the name and
    contact information (postal mail, phone, and/or email) for the
    authors.

Note that if the I-D is eventually published as an RFC, this information
will not be changeable. When possible, provide contact information that
is expected to be stable over time.

-   [ ] Verify that there are no more than five authors or editors. If
    there is a need to list more, discuss the need with the relevant
    stream leadership as early in the process as possible. For the IETF
    stream, consult an Area Director.

Per [RFC 7322](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7322):

> The total number of authors or editors on the first page is generally
> limited to five individuals and their affiliations. If there is a
> request for more than five authors, the stream-approving body needs to
> consider if one or two editors should have primary responsibility for
> this document, with the other individuals listed in the Contributors
> or Acknowledgements section. There must be a direct correlation of
> authors and editors in the document header and the Authors’ Addresses
> section. These are the individuals that must sign off on the document
> during the AUTH48 process and respond to inquiries, such as errata.

### Content Considerations

#### Internet-Drafts Are Not RFCs

-   [ ] Verify that the I-D does not refer to itself as an RFC or a
    draft RFC.

-   [ ] Verify that the I-D neither states nor implies that it has any
    standards-like status.

To do so conflicts with the roles of the RFC Editor and the IESG. The
title of the document should not imply a status. Avoid the use of the
terms Standard, Proposed, Draft, Experimental, Historic, Required,
Recommended, Elective, or Restricted in the I-D title. An I-D may
indicate its intended status, if it were to be published as an RFC, by
setting the `status` attribute of the `seriesInfo` XML element (see [RFC
7322](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7322)) or by placing the words
“Intended status: \<status>” on the left side of the headers in the
first page if preparing a plaintext submission.

#### Use of BCP 14 Terms

If [BCP 14](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp14) language (MUST,
SHOULD, etc.) is used, the guidelines in [RFC
2119](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119), especially those in Sections
6 and 7, should be followed. SHOULD is especially problematic: it needs
to be clear why SHOULD is used rather than MUST, and what the
implications are of varying from the recommendation.

#### Programing Languages

When programming languages are used in Internet-Drafts, it is necessary
to include as a reference the formal definition of that coding language
(e.g., C87, C99, etc.).

#### Formal Languages

-   [ ] Verify that any use of formal languages conforms with the [IESG
    statement on the use of formal
    languages](https://www.ietf.org/about/groups/iesg/statements/formal-languages-use/).

Some particular points to observe are enumerated below.

##### MIB modules

All MIB modules should have correct syntax, so they should compile
cleanly using the `smilint` tool, e.g.:

          smilint -m -s -l 6 -i namelength-32

An [online service is available for MIB syntax
checking](https://www.ibr.cs.tu-bs.de/projects/libsmi/tools/). This
allows you to extract the MIB module from a document for your own local
use, but you can also directly run a syntax check.

You can also download the
[`libsmi`](https://www.ibr.cs.tu-bs.de/projects/libsmi/tools/) tools for
local use. In most cases, there should be no errors or warnings present
in the report. Please evaluate all diagnostic messages before assuming
that they are OK. If in doubt, feel free to check on the [ietfmibs
mailing list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/IETFMIBS) or with
the [OPS ADs](mailto:ops-ads@ietf.org).

-   [ ] Ensure that MIB modules compile cleanly

-   [ ] Verify that the I-D follows the guidelines in [RFC
    4181](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4181) as updated by [RFC
    4841](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4841).

##### Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF)

-   [ ] Ensure all Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) in the I-D compiles
    cleanly; [a tool is available](https://tools.ietf.org/tools/bap/).
    See [RFC 5234](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234) for information
    about IETF ABNF.

-   [ ] If ABNF is used, ensure the I-D contains a normative reference
    to [RFC 5234](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234).

##### XML

Protocol specifications that use XML should always use well-formed XML
at a minimum. Sample XML instances included in a specification have to
be well-formed, and if the XML is supposed to be valid (according to the
current W3C definition of validity), the samples must reference and be
validated using an appropriate XML Schema, DTD, or another standard
validation mechanism that is structurally and syntactically correct.

Other guidelines for the use of XML in IETF protocols can be found in
[RFC 3470](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3470). Internet-Drafts that
include an XML Schema should include a normative reference to either the
W3C XML Schema Definition Language 1.1
[Part1](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema11-1/) or [Part
2](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema11-2/) .

-   [ ] Verify that any XML in the I-D is well-formed, and if it is
    intended to be valid, confirm that it validates against the
    appropriate definition.

XML provides structures, such as the “`<any>`” element information item
in XML Schema, to allow element extensions.

-   [ ] Ensure the I-D contains clear guidance on how, when, and where
    any extension structures, such as versioning, can be used.

-   [ ] Check that any new or updated XML Schemas, Namespaces, and
    Resource Description Framework (RDF) Schemas are being registered
    with IANA using the procedures described in [RFC
    3688](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688).

##### YANG

YANG (Yet Another Next Generation) is a data modeling language for data
sent over network management protocols such as NETCONF and RESTCONF.
Specifications that present a YANG module should test, review, and
format them using [these tools and
guidance](https://trac.ietf.org/trac/ops/wiki/yang-review-tools).

Other useful references when considering inclusion of a YANG module
include [RFC 8340](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8340), [RFC
8407](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8407), and the [YANG module
security
considerations](https://trac.ietf.org/trac/ops/wiki/yang-security-guidelines).

#### Example Addresses

-   [ ] Verify that examples use example FQDNs whenever possible.

Addresses used in examples should use fully qualified domain names
instead of literal IP addresses, and should use example FQDNs such as
“foo.example.com” instead of real-world FQDNs. See [RFC
2606](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2606) for example domain names that
can be used. Note that the entire “.example” TLD is reserved, allowing
for arbitrary subdomains (in particular, ones that are not considered
same-origin on the Web.

-   [ ] Verify that literal IP addresses are from the example ranges.

There are also ranges of IP addresses set aside for this purpose. For
IPv4, these are defined in [RFC
6890](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6890); for IPv6, see [RFC
3849](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3849). Per the [IAB Statement on
IPv6](https://www.iab.org/2016/11/07/iab-statement-on-ipv6), IPv6
examples should be used.

-   [ ] Verify that private addresses that would be used in the real
    world are not used in examples.

-   [ ] Verify that real telephone numbers are not used in examples.

Use those numbers that were reserved for examples or fictitious use.
Available numbers for use in examples are:

          UK: +44-<geographic-area-code>-496-<0000-0999>
          USA: +1-<area code>-555-<0100-0199>

For USA examples, also see
[ATIS-0300115](https://www.nationalnanpa.com/pdf/NRUF/ATIS-0300115.pdf).

#### Stale Text

Avoid text that will become outdated after the I-D is published.
Examples include non-permanent URLs, mentions of specific mailing lists
as places to send comments on a document, or referring to specific WGs
as a place to perform specific future actions (e.g., reviewing follow-up
documents). In some cases (like the `ORGANIZATION` clause in MIB
modules), references to working groups are impossible to avoid; however,
generally, Internet-Drafts should not assign powers or responsibilities
to WGs unless the WG in question is certain to exist as long as the
practice documented in the published RFC remains valid. In cases where a
specific WG is expected to be a focal point for future action, it is
acceptable to give the task to the IESG, giving instructions on how the
action is expected to be delegated, e.g., by forwarding to an
appropriate WG or another set of experts.

-   [ ] Check the I-D for text that could become stale. To the extent
    possible, make it future-proof.

#### Protocol Issues

This section provides some general guidance that will help to avoid
extended discussion during the document review and approval process. The
IESG has compiled a [list of useful topics to
consider](https://trac.ietf.org/trac/iesg/wiki/ExpertTopics).

-   [ ] Ensure the I-D avoids IPv4 specificity. Both IPv4 and IPv6 must
    be supportable, unless the protocol is naturally IPv4 specific or
    IPv6 specific. Expect an IPv4-only protocol to be met with friction.

-   [ ] Ensure the I-D does not introduce congestion issues. No
    application can be permitted to cause catastrophic congestion. See
    [RFC 2914](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2914) for details.
    Applications using TCP, SCTP, DCCP, or QUIC will normally fulfill
    this requirement automatically. Other applications using UDP should
    adhere to the guidance in [RFC
    8085](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8085).

-   [ ] Verify that any sort of end-to-end checksum or integrity check
    being used (especially, but not limited to, cryptographic checksums
    or MACs) precisely specifies the contents of the fields to be
    checksummed, and in exactly what order the operations are done. Pay
    special attention to any area reserved for the checksum itself.

-   [ ] Verify that all user-visible text fields are
    internationalizable; see [RFC
    2277](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2277). For most cases, this
    means [UTF-8](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3629). But note that it
    is often not sufficient to simply say that strings are encoded with
    UTF-8 (see below about comparisons), especially when talking about
    case-(in)sensitivity, case folding, and the like.

-   [ ] If text fields are included in some calculations, like matching,
    sorting, etc., verify that how those operations are applied to the
    Unicode/ISO 10646 character set are described in detail. See
    [“stringprep”](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8264) for more
    information on the recommended way of handling comparisons.

#### Inclusive Language

The IESG has made a
[statement](https://www.ietf.org/about/groups/iesg/statements/on-inclusive-language/)
recommending authors review [NISTIR
8366](https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8366) for guidelines on using
inclusive terminology.

## Format

Formatting is automatically handled when Internet-Drafts are submitted
in XML form. Authors of such I-Ds have very few formatting issues to
consider. The primary consideration is ensuring the tools are able to
render the various formats. In particular, the content of the XML must
be amenable to rendering with the 72 character per line restriction in
the text format.

Authors preparing Internet-Drafts in plain text must ensure the document
conforms to many formatting rules.

The format constraints for a plaintext I-D are primarily the same as
those for the text format of an RFC as specified in [RFC
7994](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7994). One notable difference is
that Internet-Drafts are paginated, and include running headers and
footers. A few formatting requirements are highlighted here, but authors
preparing plaintext documents should fully understand the requirements
in [RFC 7994](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7994), [RFC
7841](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7841), [RFC
7332](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7332), [RFC
7322](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7322), the RFC Editor’s [Style
Guide](https://www.rfc-editor.org/styleguide/), and the [current
acceptable boilerplate
texts](https://www.iab.org/documents/headers-boilerplate/).

The submission tool will block submission for many formatting errors and
flag many others. The [`idnits`
tool](https://tools.ietf.org/tools/idnits/) can be used to identify
those so they can be corrected before submission. Well-formatted I-Ds
tend to progress through the review process more quickly. When an I-D is
approved for publication as an RFC, the RFC Editor can take care of a
few small formatting errors. However, if many formatting errors exist,
the document will be returned to the stream requesting publication for
fixes. Please be aware that not conforming to the formatting rules will
most probably delay publication and consume time that can be spent on
other work.

These are formatting requirements for plaintext I-Ds that often are
overlooked:

-   [ ] Verify that the document name and version appears on the first
    page.

-   [ ] Verify that the I-D contains a “Table of Contents” section
    between the “Copyright Notice” and the introduction. This section
    must not be numbered.

-   [ ] Verify that no text extends beyond the 72nd column of a line.
    This limit is especially important for diagrams, which the RFC
    Editor may not be able to trivially reformat to fall within the
    margins.

-   [ ] Verify that source code does not extend beyond the 69th column.

-   [ ] Verify that the text is ragged-right.

-   [ ] Verify that hyphenation is not used for line breaks. However,
    hyphenated words (e.g., “Internet-Draft”) may be split at the hyphen
    across successive lines.

-   [ ] Verify that the I-D contains no footnotes.

-   [ ] Verify the characters in the I-D meet the requirements of [RFC
    7994](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7994). In brief, the document
    must be UTF-8 encoded, but code points not corresponding to ASCII
    are allowed only in certain contexts (see [RFC
    7997](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7997)). Control characters
    other than `CR`, `NL`, and `FF` are not allowed. The use of
    non-ASCII characters is limited to when there is a specific need,
    most notably for names. Many uses of non-ASCII characters will
    require listing the Unicode codepoint by number in addition to the
    character itself.

-   [ ] Verify that the “Status of This Memo” and “Abstract” sections
    are not numbered.

-   [ ] Verify that the appropriate boilerplate text in the IPR-related
    sections is reproduced exactly (see the [IPR-Related Notices
    section](#ipr-related-notices)). In particular, ensure that the
    names of RFCs contained in that content are not reformatted as
    references.

-   [ ] Verify that the I-D is well formatted for readability and
    clarity.

-   [ ] If the I-D has “Contributors” and/or “Acknowlegments” sections,
    verify that the sections are unnumbered and placed after the
    “References” section and any appendices. See Section 4 of [RFC
    7322](https://rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7322).

-   [ ] Verify that references to Internet-Drafts and RFCs are formatted
    as shown in the “web portion” of the RFC Editor’s Style Guide (see
    [here](https://www.rfc-editor.org/styleguide/part2/#ref_ids) for
    guidance on I-Ds and
    [here](https://www.rfc-editor.org/part2/#ref_rfcs) for guidance on
    RFCs). Note that these formats can change over time, so review these
    links carefully with each document submission.

## Acknowledgement

This document is based heavily on the work of Russ Housley, Ben Kaduk,
Murray Kucherawy, Alvaro Retana, and the members of many IESGs.
